For the Trackzilla project, the schemas are found underneath the
graphql directory in the resources package.
Notice there's one schema file,
and it's called application.graphqls. Let's take a look at it.
This is what a schema looks like. Notice there can only be
one route query and one mutation type.
Each file will contain all the query and all the
mutation operations for the given type.
Here,
the type is called Application, and I list out the query operations,
findAllApplications, countApplications, and the Mutation operations,
newApplication, deleteApplication, updateApplicationOwner.
Let's go back to the Application type.
Notice that the fields are typed.
These types can be scaler types like int, float, string. Boolean,
ID, or any other reference type.
So here, the ID is of type id, name is of type String, owner is of
type String, and description is of type String.
This exclamation point here means the field is required.
And if we scroll down here and we look at the brackets,
this means it's an array.
Every complex type in the graphql server is represented by a
corresponding Java object, so we have this Application type and we
have the corresponding application Java object.
And this is the Application class that we've seen before.
It has an id, name, description, and an owner. Like with our RESTful API,
there's an application repository that gives us the ability to interact
with the H2 in‑memory database to create,
read, or update or delete applications.
Now in a real‑world scenario,
you would have the business logic abstracted into a service layer
similar to how the RESTful API was designed.
Since this is a simple use case, I've excluded it, and that is a good look at the schema.